Hi,
guys.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss how we can create Ah,
combo box that controls a pivot chart.
So you can see here that,
um I've got a combo box here.
And when I just choose a different year,
it just changes the data on the chart to plot the sales for that particular year.
Okay,
s.
So if a choose your 2012 you can see here that it's the data the data plotted.
It has changed to the for the sales in 2012.
Now,
Ah,
let's see how we can create the this kind of effect,
because here that I've got a combo box here and we will check what it's connected to,
so right,
click on it and click on formal control.
And you can see here that the MPA trains for the combo box is ah arranged called the year
list.
And also there is a selling here on sell em seven on the combo box row data sheet.
Okay,
Now,
let's check the combo box row data sheet.
You can see here that we've got a table that contains some sales data,
and there is ah,
that colander is highlighted in yellow.
It's a calculated column that extracts the year from the order date.
Okay,
And also I've got a pivot table here,
and this is what's what the pivot Short is connected directly to.
So this is what the what?
This pivot short,
actually.
Ah,
plots.
Okay.
And you can see here that there's a filter for the year and actually the combo box.
What it does is it changes the year in this filter,
and I'll show you how it's it's by using a macro,
I'll show you how we can create such a macro,
and you can see her that there is upgraded another.
Um,
I've created another pivot table here with the year only with the Year column on Lee,
and it's just listing the years and you can see here this arranging sending order by
clicking on that button and then clicking on sort,
smallest to largest.
And the reason I created this this pivot table is toe have the list of years to have the
hammock range for the year list,
and so that this this pivot table would feed that range and it would be because the range
is dynamic,
so If you add data for 2015 for example,
this pivot table would expand and the range would expend as well ah to include the year
And so the year 2015 would be included on the list as well.
Of course,
both these pivot tables,
they get fed from the same row Data source to this table here,
we've got on the left.
Great.
Now let's check our dynamic range here the year list.
It's a simple range that I've created.
Using the offset function as we've seen on the video for creating dynamic range is using
the offset functions to please refer back to that video.
If you want Teoh,
if you need a refresher and how to create dynamic ranges Okay,
Now we're gonna I'm gonna close the name manager here and you can see here that there is a
cell here,
which is the combo box selling.
This is the selling for the combo box.
For it out puts the index number of the year selected So because on this list,
2012 is the second year on the list,
so it outputs to and you can see here that If I choose 2013 it will open 23 and so on and
so forth.
And this is just ah,
on this cell of we've got an index function that,
um,
gets this the year itself out of,
ah,
out of the year list dynamic cranes.
So,
actually,
we just use the index function to extract the actual year from the dynamic range.
Ah,
you Azaz we have We would have the extra year,
and then we will build a macro to actually take this actual year and put it here on the
pivot table filter.
Okay,
this is how we can control.
Ah,
the pivot table and pivot chart using the combo box.
Okay,
so this is the basic idea behind Ah,
that controlling behind controlling a pivot chart using a combo box.
So let's build the macro.
Okay,
guys.
So now we're going to see how we can create the macro that we're going to attach to the
combo box in order to ah,
change the filter on on this pivot table,
the year filter.
So what we need to do,
first of all,
to record the macro,
we're going to go to our developer Tab on the ribbon and then click on record,
Macro.
And then I'm gonna name my macro here,
Change underscore year.
Then I'm gonna click,
OK,
in order to start recording.
And now what we need to do is to just do a year change here on the pivot table filters.
I'm gonna change the pivot table filter to be 2013 for example,
and then click.
OK,
And then I'm going to stop recording my macro by going to the developer tub on the ribbon
and then clicking on Stop recording that.
I'm gonna go to my macro to edit it.
Eso I'm going to go to the macro owes button here on the developer tab on the ribbon,
click on it and then just gonna highlight my macro that I've recorded and click on it it.
By the way,
there is another macro here,
which is the change the year macro that is actually attached already to the combo box.
The one that I have ah illustrated the functionality of the combo box with.
So I'm actually creating a duplicate off the same macro here.
I'm gonna how I like my change year macro and then click on it it.
And now,
as you can see here on the code,
the first line,
what it does is that it clears the filter on the year here on the the year filter on the
pivot table.
So it clears the year filter and the second line on the macro.
What it does is it puts the year 2013 into that filter.
So we need to make two changes.
First of all,
on the two lines.
It refers to the active sheet,
but we can't refer to the active sheet because the macro is gonna be run on from this sheet
here the combo box dashboard sheet,
which is a different cheat than the one containing the pivot table,
which is a combo box raw data sheet.
So what we need to do is to refer to the combo box Rhodey to sheet instead of the active
sheet because of referred to the active sheet.
Then we're referring to the combo box dashboard cheap.
So I'm just gonna right here instead of active sheet,
I'm gonna write worksheets combo box row data combo box raw data,
and it doesn't it doesn't matter.
The case off the letters,
whether they are upper case.
Lower case.
This won't make a difference on day.
I mean that on the combo box Rotator the the name of the sheet.
It doesn't matter if it's written and Olin cops or only in small letters.
I'm also gonna replace the active sheet on the second line here with worksheets combo box
raw data on the first part of the second line and the second thing that we need to do so
after referring to the worksheets combo box rotate out.
The second thing we need to do here is to change the year 2013 to be,
ah,
this cell in the to be the cell and seven So the value in cell and seven in combo box raw
data sheet because we need the value of the combo box,
which is represented by cell,
and seven okay,
to be put in this ah filter on the year filter here on the pivot table.
So what we need to do is to write worksheets,
combo box,
raw data dot range and seven,
because now we're referring to that cell and seven dot value,
and it's very important to write an adult value port here.
And I'm just gonna save my macro by clicking on control on s on my keyboard.
I'm gonna close the vb vb a editor,
Okay.
And then I'm gonna go to my combo box dashboard sheet,
and I'm going to right click on my combo box because I need to assign the macro that I've
just recorded to the combo box.
So as the macro to be launched or to be fired whenever I changed the value on the combo box
,
I'm gonna click on a sign macro and then click on change Underscore year and then click.
OK,
so right now what?
What we need to do is to try our macro.
So I'm just gonna put here the year 2011 And you can see here,
guys that the chart is interacting with the change on the combo box The change of year on
the combo box.
Okay.
And you can see here guys as well that I've got a cell here that actually it writes sales
and then a dash,
and then the,
uh the year that I've just chosen and how to do this effect is is using an equation and
concoct in ating using the n percent.
So I'm just concoct in ating the word sales and then space and then a dash and then space
here this string between the two double quotes and ken cutting concoct in a ting it with
the cell K five in combo box ready to hear.
So with the cell containing the filter and then I've assigned this Ah,
the stacks box here on the chart or this chart title I've assigned it to this cell.
Normally,
we would hide this cell here having sales 2013 bus just I've kept it visible for
illustration.
So I've assigned that by by going Cuba clicking on this chart title and then clicking here
inside the for middle bore and,
you know,
it would normally wouldn't have it Wouldn't have anything on the formula bar.
I clicked on equal and then just clicked that sell,
impressed,
enter.
So now you can see here that the title of the charters interacting with my selection on the
combo box.
So this is guys how you can create,
um,
combo boxes that can control perfect charts.
So thank you guys for watching this video and please follow me onto the next video